We do have to change the way
our app works a tiny bit.
When you're rendering in a node
environment, you cannot access the DOM.
I think that makes sense.
However, we've coded our entire
application up to this point,
thinking that it's going
to be running in the DOM.
Now, I can help you cheat a little bit,
and I intentionally helped you write it in
such a way that we didn't
have to change very much.
But basically, it means that for
that critical path, first render,
we have to get the, basically, window and
document out of the way, and fetch, for
that matter.
So an example of where this
could have been a problem.
Here in Modal, notice that here we have to
do document.createElement("div"), right?
You can't call document in node,
this will crash, right?
No, I made it here in such
a way that you don't have to.
So it's fine, cuz we don't render
modal on the first render, right?
Don't render modals on the first render.
I think that's generally just a good
rule of not being a crappy human being.
I probably just offended someone there,
that's fine.
[LAUGH] Welcome to the hill I die on,
modals are terrible.
But if you are trying to render modal on
the first render, this would crash, right,
because you're calling document.
So you have to go take care of
all those concerns upfront.
And then the other thing
that we can do here is we're
calling from here,
Render from react-dom here.
This is obviously gonna try and talk
to the window and the document, right?
So we actually have to move
this into a special file.
So just create a file here
with me called ClientApp.js.
You can call it whatever you want.
I called it ClientApp cuz this is what's
actually going to render in the browser.
So everything that you put in ClientApp.js
will happen in the browser and
will not happen in node.
So think about all the things
that you might wanna do.
For example, Google Analytics, you don't
wanna fire analytics from your server,
you wanna fire analytics
from their browser.
So you'd put all of your Google Analytics
calls here in ClientApp.js.
So what we're gonna do here
instead of rendering App out here,
like we do here in this document call,
which would definitely crash,
we're gonna just say export default App.
We're just gonna copy and paste that,
cuz we're gonna put that in ClientApp.
And then we'll get rid of
render up here on line 1.
Okay, here in ClientApp,
we're gonna put that line of render here.
So first of all, We're going to import,
render from react-dom,
and we're going to import
App from ./App, okay?
Now, we have one more problem,
With App.js here.
What about BrowserRouter?
Well, BrowserRouter only
can happen in the DOM.
Kind of a problem,
because we still need a router, right?
So we're gonna pull this out as well.
And you can just delete those
components here from React.
Link will work, everything else will work,
it's just specifically
BrowserRouter can't be rendered in Node,
it has to happen in the browser.
So here in ClientApp,
we're also going to import BrowserRouter
from react-router-dom, and then we'll
just wrap App here, BrowserRouter.
There you go, like that.
Okay, we're not quite there,
we actually don't wanna use render.
Now, why?
Render makes the fundamental assumption
that we're constructing this app from
nothing, right?
It's telling React, it's like, all right,
here's your space, get started.
What we need to tell React is,
hey, we already did this for you,
we just want you to take
over existing markup, right?
Cuz what we're gonna do is,
on our first pass,
we're going to render
out the complete app.
We're gonna send that down to the user so
they immediately get static HTML.
Then we have to tell React,
I already did the HTML part for
you, I want you to just take
over the existing static markup.
And the way you do that, instead of
saying render, we're gonna say hydrate.
Cuz you can never drink enough water.
The idea is, it's like you dry it out,
right, and then you send it down, and
then it rehydrates it on the other side.
Or it's just someone trying to remind
themselves to drink more water.
It's one of the two,
I can't figure out which it is.
One last thing here in index.html, instead
of having the entry point be App.js,
we have to tell Parcel where to start.
And the new place to
start is ClientApp.js.
And I still have this here,
I gotta go delete that,
delete those two things too.
Okay, I think so
far we are ready to go into node mode,
which I meant to rhyme just now.
So first thing here is
we're gonna npm install,
and we're gonna use Express.
This is not a commentary that you
should or should not use Express,
it's just the one that
everyone's familiar with.
I tend to use express a lot,
cuz I've been writing node for a decade.
And that's just the one that I can
write without thinking about it.
But I will tell you that if I
was gonna start a startup today,
I probably wouldn't build it on Express.
Fastify would probably be
a strong choice there.
I'd probably write my
frontend service in Next, and
then my APIs in something like Fastify.
Or Express, Express is fine.
When I was at Netflix, we used Restify,
which is really similar.
Okay, so now we have package.json, we look
here, we have express right there, great.
Last thing here, ya, no,
we got that, that's fine.
Go to your package.json, we're there.
So we have dev here
that'll start our server.
We also need to start our web server.
So we're gonna put start here.
And we also have to have to build.
Let's do build first,
cuz that's gonna make more sense.
Okay, so build is going to do
parcel build, which is fine.
And then start is gonna do npm -s, which
is silent, I think, is what that means.
You're gonna run build.
So basically, every time that I run start,
I wanna make sure that I build the server
anew again, which is what that's gonna do.
And then we're gonna end.
You might need to change how that works if
you're in Windows and not in PowerShell.
Anyway, yeah, I'm wondering if
the double ampersand works in Windows.
I don't remember exactly how to do it.
If you're having trouble with it,
then just make npm run start
node dist/backend/inde.js.
And then just make sure you
always run build first,
that's the way that you take care of that.
For the rest of you just go ahead and
do npm -s run build,
it's just easy to forget to run build and
you'll be wondering,
I just changed this code,
why is it not rebuilding?
So just an easy way to not do that.
Okay, now we do have to give parcels and
configuration cuz we actually needed
to build multiple things now, why?
Well, if you think about it,
our entire application is written in jsx,
we're gonna try and run jsx in node,
which means something needs to compile it,
Because node doesn't speak jsx.
Node also doesn't speak ES
module by default either, right?
So down here at the bottom,
we're gonna just add a couple of little
configuration items, it called targets.
And we're gonna make two targets.
One's gonna be called front end, which is
basically what we've already been doing.
And its source is gonna be
source/index.html, right?
And it's public URL,
Is going to be /frontend
We're basically just telling
it where to find it, okay?
And underneath that,
we're gonna have a back end now
that we were not doing previously.
Source is gonna be in, Server/index.js,
I guess this can be an array or
cannot be an array, either way is fine.
I think I originally had multiple
things here and took that out.
Either way, both are fine.
Optimize, because this is not
being sent over the wire,
we don't need to like minify it and
manage it and all that kind of stuff.
It's actually preferable if we don't
cuz we'll get better error messages.
So for optimize,
we're gonna put that as false contexts.
So we're gonna tell it please build for
node.
And then, we'll have to tell what
version of node to build for.
And we're gonna tell it to build for
whatever version of node you're using.
I'm using node 16.
So I'm gonna tell it to build for 16
Again, I have a ligature there.
This is angle bracket equal and
when I put them together,
my font pushes them together
to make it look like that
I need a colon there.
Okay, This is what parcel
is gonna read to build this.
And this is also the way you would
build it to go out to production.
So you can kinda take this as
like a double lesson in terms of,
this is how you would set up parcel to
build multiple things to go to production.
We're not gonna build a good
developer experience here.
You typically, what you wanna do is
you'd wanna have parcels start on your
web server and then it's like hot
refresh dev server in there, right?
But that would add a lot of code
to make that all supported for
a nice developer experience.
And I'm just gonna show you how to
build this for production for today.
Okay, now you and
I have to write a node server together.
And there's a little bit to write here,
so let's do that together,
make a new folder here and
call it server, then here make
a new file and call it index.js
Now you could write this in common js
typically that's how you write node-js,
how you previously have been writing it.
Future node code will be ES modules.
So let's just do that.
It's already running
through parcel anyway, so
might as well make it
futuristic JavaScript.
Import express from express.
Import renderToString from
react-dom/server.
So there's a special like little sub
package here that allows us to render
the stream from react-dom.
We're gonna import a module
from React Router DOM
called StaticRouter react-router-dom.
Again they mimic the same
pattern which is server.
We're gonna import our good friend fs,
from fs, this is file system,
it's just a node core module.
And import app from ../source/App.
Okay, these are all of our core modules.
We're gonna declare the port that
we're gonna be listening on.
So you can either just set
that to straight up be 1000,
I have a force of habit from
working at a cloud provider for
too long to say process.env.PORT or
some default port which is 3000.
The reason why I do it this way is if
you deploy it to like Azure for example,
it will provide you an environment
variable to tell you what port to listen
because it's always a nonstandard port.
It's a security thing, kind of, not
really, probably just the way they do it.
Okay, we're gonna kind of
cheat this a little bit.
There's a lot of ways that you can think
about how to do server side rendering.
A lot of people will make a special
react component that's only meant to be
rendered on the server that
renders the body of the HTML.
We don't need to do that right now, so
we're not going to, but you could do it
that way, and I'll say it's probably
one of the more common ways to do it.
What we're gonna do instead is we're going
to read from our generated HTML document.
In fact, you can see here.
Well, we haven't built it yet.
This is going to get built into another
HTML document that's gonna be put into our
dist folder, right?
That's going to have all of the correct
JavaScript and CSS linked, rather than try
and figure out what parcel did, we're just
going to take that generated file and
we're going to use that
to server-side render.
So let me show you what I mean.
I'm gonna say const html = fs.readFileSync
And we're gonna read from
dist/frontend/index.html, right?
This is the generated index html which
is gonna have all the correct paths.
And then we'll say ToString here.
In general, I don't recommend
using readFileSync for node,
unless you're starting up your server,
right?
I'm only gonna do this once.
It's gonna pause the invocation of the
rest of the code here until this is done.
You don't wanna do that in your
response cycle to your users,
that would be dumb, but
it's fine for starting up, okay.
Const parts equals, so
if you look at this document now,
this index at HTML, where does our
react code go, our react markup?
It goes right here, right.
So I wanna render this part first,
I wanna not render not rendered, and
then I wanna render the rest of it.
So typically what people will do here
is they'll put some fancy comment of
break here or something like that.
That would be like
the normal sane thing to do.
I'm just gonna break on not
rendered because why not.
It's a good delimiter, right.
No, it's a terrible delimiter but
we're gonna do it anyway.
HTML.split not rendered.
This is just a string function,
right, parts is a string,
you can see literally right there,
it is a string.
And then we're just splitting
on it on not rendered, so
we're basically using it like
a commo we would in a string, right,
but we're doing it literally
on the string not rendered.
So not rendered will not be included,
right,
cuz the limiters are not
included when you call split.
So now parts zero will be all of this,
and parts one will be all of this.
Now, let me tell you why
this is a horrible idea,
what happens if we have the string not
rendered somewhere in our react app?
It will be fine in our react app, but
let's say somewhere else in our index.HTML
for whatever dumb reason it got output
here, then it would mess up everything.
So we're making this a little fragile but
it's fine.
Okay, const app equals express,
we're making a new server,
we're gonna serve all of our
static assets.app.use for
slash front end,
express.static, dist.front end.
This will just correctly serve
all of our front end assets.
That's where we set the public
URL to be slash front end so
this would all work correctly.
Okay, and then we're gonna say app.use
takes in a request and a response.
And then here is where all
the magic is going to happen.
Const react markup equals, and again,
remember this is going through Babel, or
it's not what is going through Babel but
it's going through Parcel.
So we can actually write JSX directly in
our note code and that's totally fine.
So we're gonna see a static
router location equals req.URL,
so we're passing in the URL from
the request to static router.
This is going to run a server
side rendering of this,
and then we're gonna render app.
At the end of this react markup is going
to be whatever the generation is of
this or
basically the create element thereof.
Then once this is all done,
we're gonna say res.send.
Basically just parts zero +
render to string react markup,
+ parts one, right.
In my notes I did it as a template string,
you can do it either way,
whatever seems more clear to you.
That's it, this will now be the complete
server side rendering of our code,
and then you just gonna say res.end.
Console.log, I always do this just
to remember what port I'm on.
Listening on http://localhost: port,
port, port, port,
port, okay, and
then app.listenonport
Okay, there's three dots there,
just need two.
Before I take some questions,
let me make sure that this
actually invokes, okay,
I'm gonna run NPM run start.
Okay, package.JSON, I messed up that
this should be engines number 44 there.
This is one of my favorite
things about Parcel though,
their error messages are awesome, right.
Did you mean to call this engines?
Yes I did
So here you can see everything that
the front end built here, which is good.
We can see here with the backend built,
index.JS.
Now I can just control click on this,
and my app still works.
Now if you look at the mark,
I'm just doing view source here, right.
Oops, notice that the adopt me,
all this stuff that was being generated in
React is now being
generated on the server.
So the users getting actually more
complete looking application.
To kind of drive home my point a little
bit, one, no one turns off their
JavaScript anymore, you can assume that at
all times users have JavaScript enabled.
That's not a thing anymore.
I hear people say,
well this needs to work without
JavaScript enable, we're past that point.
But this works without JavaScript.
So this page, right, it's rendering,
all of this stuff is coming through so
no JavaScript is executing, obviously
our app is not functional, right.
But they at least get the first view
without any JavaScript enabled.